If someone has been bitten by a snake, and you suspect it may be poisonous, help them get emergency medical treatment and follow the steps in the next session. If you know the snake wasn't poisonous, treat the area of the bite for bleeding and other symptoms:

o Use a clean cloth or gauze to apply pressure to the area until bleeding stops.
o Clean the area with soap and water.
o Apply an antibiotic cream to help ward off infection.
o Cover the wound with a sterile bandage or gauze to protect it while it heals.

If the person is experiencing severe bleeding, help them get emergency medical treatment. Continue to apply new layers of cloth or gauze to the bleeding area, on top of layers that have been soaked through with blood. Removing old layers can make the bleeding worse.

Emergency treatment for poisonous snake bites

If you suspect that someone has been bitten by a poisonous snake:

o Help them get medical help immediately. You can also call 995 for emergency treatment instructions.

o Encourage them to remain calm, lie down quietly, and stay still. Movement can cause the venom to spread through their body more quickly.

o Remove tight jewelry or clothing around the site of the bite, since swelling may occur.o If they develop pale and clammy skin, dizziness, weakness, shortness of breath, or increased heart rate, treat them for shock. Give them a blanket or extra layer of clothing to stay warm.

o If you can do so safely, take a description or picture of the snake that bit them. This can help medical professionals identify the snake and an appropriate course of treatment.

To avoid making things worse, do not:

o endanger yourself by trying to capture the snake

o wash the site of the bite, since residual venom can help medical professionals identify the type of snake and proper treatment

o apply a cold compress to the site of the bite

o raise the bitten area above the level of their heart

o cut or suck the site of the bite

o give the person anything to eat or drink

o give the person any pain medications